episode/0/README.md, before:

# Episode 0 - Humble Beginnings

![YouTube video thumbnail](./thumb.jpg)

This is the very first episode of "Hello Rust!". I'm so excited!
  
It is my lighthearted journey to become a fearless, more effective Rust programmer. And you can be part, too! My goal is to address beginner and intermediate Rust questions and show that systems programming can be a lot of fun.
  

[Watch now on Youtube!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jMJRTjnh_jo)  

Keywords: introduction, rustlang, programming, live-coding

## Things I mentioned during the show

* [Steve Klabnik - The History of Rust, 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=79PSagCD_AY)
* [My Blog, where it all started](http://matthias-endler.de/)
* [Rust Cologne - Our monthly meetup](http://www.meetup.com/de/Rust-Cologne-Bonn/)

## Things I should have mentioned (but forgot)

* I was clearly inspired by the following shows:
* [Just for func](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_BzFbxG2za3bp5NRRRXJSw)
* [fun fun function](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCO1cgjhGzsSYb1rsB4bFe4Q)


## Meta

* Wallpaper: [Grumpy Cat](https://www.tineye.com/search/4e3d2800ae44015cce4a5ee5e04b94226cae14ba/)



## Support!

If you liked this video, [please subscribe to my channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZ_EWaQZCZuGGfnuqUoHujw) 😊.
You will not regret this, I guess.
If you're really digging this thing, [show your support on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?c=1568097).  
Thank you very much for considering a donation - no matter the amount.

Commit message:

Extract legal section from meta section

episode/0/README.md, after:

# Episode 0 - Humble Beginnings

![YouTube video thumbnail](./thumb.jpg)

This is the very first episode of "Hello Rust!". I'm so excited!

It is my lighthearted journey to become a fearless, more effective Rust programmer. And you can be part, too! My goal is to address beginner and intermediate Rust questions and show that systems programming can be a lot of fun. In this episode, I talk about the show and how I started with Rust. The show is clearly inspired by "JustForFunc" and "Fun Fun Function".


[Watch now on Youtube!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jMJRTjnh_jo)  

Keywords: introduction, rustlang, programming, live-coding

## Things I mentioned during the show

* [Steve Klabnik - The History of Rust, 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=79PSagCD_AY)
* [My Blog, where it all started](http://matthias-endler.de/)
* [Rust Cologne - Our monthly meetup](http://www.meetup.com/de/Rust-Cologne-Bonn/)

## Things I should have mentioned (but forgot)

* I was clearly inspired by the following shows:
* [Just for func](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_BzFbxG2za3bp5NRRRXJSw)
* [fun fun function](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCO1cgjhGzsSYb1rsB4bFe4Q)


## Resources and licenses

* Wallpaper: [Grumpy Cat](https://www.tineye.com/search/4e3d2800ae44015cce4a5ee5e04b94226cae14ba/)



## Support!

If you liked this video, [please subscribe to my channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZ_EWaQZCZuGGfnuqUoHujw) 😊.
You will not regret this, I guess.
If you're really digging this thing, [show your support on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?c=1568097).  
Thank you very much for considering a donation - no matter the amount.
